after user logs on a variety of user credentials are stored in memory in Local system security authority process in the memory . this is meant to facilitate SSO single sign on ensuring user isnt prompted with login popup each time . 
the credential data includes = kerberos tickets , NTLM password hashes , LM hashes (*Windows doesn't store your user account password in clear-text. Instead, it generates and stores user account passwords by using two different password representations, known as hashes. When you set or change the password for a user account to a password that contains fewer than 15 characters, Windows generates both an LM hash and a Windows NT hash (NT hash) of the password. These hashes are stored in the local SAM database or Active Directory.*

*The LM hash is relatively weak compared to the NT hash, and it's prone to fast brute force attack. So you may want to prevent Windows from storing an LM hash of your password. This article describes how to make Windows only store the stronger NT hash of your password*.) -> this applies to *Windows 10 - all editions, Windows Server 2012 R2*
and even clear text passwords (to support wdigest (*WDigest.dll was introduced in the Windows XP operating system The Digest Authentication protocol is designed for use with Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and Simple Authentication Security Layer (SASL) exchanges, as documented in RFCs 2617 and 2831. These exchanges require that parties that seek to authenticate must demonstrate their knowledge of secret keys. This process improves upon earlier versions of HTTP authentication, in which users provide passwords that are not encrypted when they are sent to a server, leaving them vulnerable to capture by attackers, or that are encrypted but sent in an expensive, ongoing, Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) session.*

*Digest Authentication has similar security characteristics to the proprietary NTLM protocol. Both Digest Authentication and NTLM are challenge/response protocols. Challenge/response protocols require an authenticating server to generate a challenge containing some amount of unpredictable data. A client then uses a key derived from the user’s password to encrypt the challenge and forms a response. The server, or a trusted service such as Active Directory, can verify that the user possesses the correct password by comparing the client’s encrypted response to a stored response based on the credential associated with the user in Active Directory or in the server account database for local users. If the responses match, the user is authenticated*.) and SSP (*(SSP) A dynamic-link library (DLL) that implements the SSPI by making one or more security packages available to applications. Each security package provides mappings between an application's SSPI function calls and an actual security model's functions. Security packages support security protocols such as Kerberos authentication and the Microsoft LAN Manager*.)authentication among others ) SSPI (*(SSPI) A common interface between transport-level applications, such as Microsoft Remote Procedure Call (RPC), and security providers, such as Windows Distributed Security. SSPI allows a transport application to call one of several security providers to obtain an authenticated connection. These calls do not require extensive knowledge of the security protocol's details.*) 

While you can [prevent a Windows computer from creating the LM hash](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/299656) in the local computer SAM database (and the AD database), this doesn’t prevent the system from generating the LM hash in memory. [By default, Windows Server 2008 and Windows Vista no longer generate LM hashes](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/magazine/2006.08.securitywatch.aspx) for users unless explicitly enabled. Starting with Windows 8.1 and Windows Server 2012 R2, the LM hash and “clear-text” password are no longer in memory. [This functionality was also “back-ported” to earlier versions of Windows (Windows 7/8/2008R2/2012) in kb2871997](https://adsecurity.org/?p=559), though in order to prevent the “clear-text” password from being placed in LSASS, the following registry key needs to be set to “0” (Digest Disabled):

HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\SecurityProviders\WDigest “UseLogonCredential”(DWORD)

This registry key is worth monitoring in your environment since an attacker may wish to set it to 1 to enable Digest password support which forces “clear-text” passwords to be placed in LSASS on any version of Windows from Windows 7/2008R2 up to Windows 10/2012R2. Windows 8.1/2012 R2 and newer do not have a “UseLogonCredential” DWORD value, so it would have to be created. The existence of this key on these systems may indicate a problem.

Note that running code directly on a target system is rarely desirable for an attacker, so Mimikatz is continuously updated with new capability to be run remotely. This include running Mimikatz remotely against a remote system to dump credentials, using Invoke-Mimikatz remotely with PowerShell Remoting, and [DCSync](https://adsecurity.org/?page_id=1821#DCSync), the latest feature to grab password data for any Active Directory account in the domain remotely against a DC without any Mimikatz code being run on the DC ([it uses Microsoft’s Domain Controller official replication APIs, once the correct rights are attained](https://adsecurity.org/?p=1729)).

The majority of Mimikatz functionality is available in [PowerSploit](https://github.com/mattifestation/PowerSploit) (PowerShell Post-Exploitation Framework) through the “[Invoke-Mimikatz](https://github.com/mattifestation/PowerSploit/blob/master/Exfiltration/Invoke-Mimikatz.ps1)” PowerShell script (written by [Joseph Bialek](https://twitter.com/JosephBialek)) which “leverages Mimikatz 2.0 and Invoke-ReflectivePEInjection to reflectively load Mimikatz completely in memory. This allows you to do things such as dump credentials without ever writing the Mimikatz binary to disk.” Note that the PowerSploit framework is now hosted in the [“PowerShellMafia” GitHub repository](https://github.com/PowerShellMafia/PowerSploit).

What gives Invoke-Mimikatz its “magic” is the ability to reflectively load the Mimikatz DLL (embedded in the script) into memory. The Invoke-Mimikatz code can be downloaded from the Internet (or intranet server), and executed from memory without anything touching disk. Furthermore, if Invoke-Mimikatz is run with the appropriate rights and the target computer has PowerShell Remoting enabled, it can pull credentials from other systems, as well as execute the standard Mimikatz commands remotely, without files being dropped on the remote system.


