Kerberos on Linux Windows and Linux use the same process to request a Ticket Granting Ticket (TGT) and Service Ticket (TGS). However, how they store the ticket information may vary depending on the Linux distribution and implementation.  In most cases, Linux machines store Kerberos tickets as ccache files in the /tmp directory. By default, the location of the Kerberos ticket is stored in the environment variable KRB5CCNAME. This variable can identify if Kerberos tickets are being used or if the default location for storing Kerberos tickets is changed. These ccache files are protected by reading and write permissions, but a user with elevated privileges or root privileges could easily gain access to these tickets.  Another everyday use of Kerberos in Linux is with keytab files. A keytab is a file containing pairs of Kerberos principals and encrypted keys (which are derived from the Kerberos password). You can use a keytab file to authenticate to various remote systems using Kerberos without entering a password. However, when you change your password, you must recreate all your keytab filesKerberos on Linux Windows and Linux use the same process to request a Ticket Granting Ticket (TGT) and Service Ticket (TGS). However, how they store the ticket information may vary depending on the Linux distribution and implementation.  In most cases, Linux machines store Kerberos tickets as ccache files in the /tmp directory. By default, the location of the Kerberos ticket is stored in the environment variable KRB5CCNAME. This variable can identify if Kerberos tickets are being used or if the default location for storing Kerberos tickets is changed. These ccache files are protected by reading and write permissions, but a user with elevated privileges or root privileges could easily gain access to these tickets.  Another everyday use of Kerberos in Linux is with keytab files. A keytab is a file containing pairs of Kerberos principals and encrypted keys (which are derived from the Kerberos password). You can use a keytab file to authenticate to various remote systems using Kerberos without entering a password. However, when you change your password, you must recreate all your keytab files